docs/formats/yaml-format.md, before:

# The YAML repository format

The YAML format is the default format for Forrest. If possible use this because the Forrest team maintains the YAML adapter. This way you can be sure that all new functionality is supported.

## Example

```yaml
commands:
  
  startServer:
    name: "server:start"
    description: "Starting the built-in web server"
    prompt: "php -S localhost:${port}"
    parameters:
      port:
        default: 8000
    
  memoryLimit:
    name: "run:memory:limit"
    description: "Run a php CLI command with a defined memory limit"
    prompt: "php -d memory_limit=${limit_in_megabyte}M ${filename}"
    parameters:
      limit_in_megabyte:
        enum:
          - 16
          - 32
          - 65
          - 128
          - 256

  worker-shell:
    name: 'docker:shell'
    description: 'Login into the docker container'
    runnable: false
    prompt: 'docker exec -it worker /bin/bash'

  files-tar-decompress:
    name: 'files:tar:decompress'
    description: 'Decompress the given tar file'
    prompt: 'tar -zxvf ${filename}'
    parameters:
      filename:
        name: tar file
        description: Tar file that should be extracted
        type: forrest_filename
        file-formats:
          - tar.gz
          - tar
```

## Command fields

- **prompt** [required] The prompt is the most important and only required field. Basically it is the string that gets executed. There are many [possibilities to enrich the string](prompt.md).


- **runnable** [default: true] - if set to false Forrest will only show the command and not run it. This is the case if a command can be harmful or it does not return. *IMPORTANT: the parameters identifier must correspond to the parameter in the prompt.*


- **parameters** [optional] - The parameter field helps specifying and validating the parameter. It can also help predefine values or define enums. 
  - **name** - The name of the parameter.
  - **description** - The description of the parameter. Will be shown when the user has to enter the value.
  - **default** - The default value for this parameter.
  - **output-format** -  This is an easy way to enrich the output. This is valuable for commands that only return a single output string like `wc -l` for example. [read more](#output-format)
  - **type** - The type of the value. This will help validating the parameter and will provide new functionality based on the type.
  - **file-formats** - The file format is only relevant if the type is `forrest_filename`. This field is also used for the reverse command search via `search:file`. If the command takes a directory as parameter use `directory` as filetype.
  - **enum** You can define a list of values the user has to chose one from.

## Parameter

### `output-format`

This is an easy way to enrich the output. This is valuable for commands that only return a single output string and is *optional*. Internally we use [`sprintf`](https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.sprintf.php) for the formatting. 

#### Example
```yaml
'file:length':
    name: 'file:length'
    description: 'Return the number of lines of a given file.'
    output-format: The file has %s lines.
    prompt: 'cat ${filename} | wc -l'
```

Commit message:

Password (#112)
* password handling

* staring password

* fixed bugs with multi values

* updated tests

* docs

* hide password

docs/formats/yaml-format.md, after:

# The YAML repository format

The YAML format is the default format for Forrest. If possible use this because the Forrest team maintains the YAML adapter. This way you can be sure that all new functionality is supported.

## Example

```yaml
commands:
  
  startServer:
    name: "server:start"
    description: "Starting the built-in web server"
    prompt: "php -S localhost:${port}"
    parameters:
      port:
        default: 8000
    
  memoryLimit:
    name: "run:memory:limit"
    description: "Run a php CLI command with a defined memory limit"
    prompt: "php -d memory_limit=${limit_in_megabyte}M ${filename}"
    parameters:
      limit_in_megabyte:
        enum:
          - 16
          - 32
          - 65
          - 128
          - 256

  worker-shell:
    name: 'docker:shell'
    description: 'Login into the docker container'
    runnable: false
    prompt: 'docker exec -it worker /bin/bash'

  files-tar-decompress:
    name: 'files:tar:decompress'
    description: 'Decompress the given tar file'
    prompt: 'tar -zxvf ${filename}'
    parameters:
      filename:
        name: tar file
        description: Tar file that should be extracted
        type: forrest_filename
        file-formats:
          - tar.gz
          - tar
```

## Command fields

- **prompt** [required] The prompt is the most important and only required field. Basically it is the string that gets executed. There are many [possibilities to enrich the string](prompt.md).


- **runnable** [default: true] - if set to false Forrest will only show the command and not run it. This is the case if a command can be harmful or it does not return. *IMPORTANT: the parameters identifier must correspond to the parameter in the prompt.*


- **parameters** [optional] - The parameter field helps specifying and validating the parameter. It can also help predefine values or define enums. 
  - **name** - The name of the parameter.
  - **description** - The description of the parameter. Will be shown when the user has to enter the value.
  - **default** - The default value for this parameter.
  - **output-format** -  This is an easy way to enrich the output. This is valuable for commands that only return a single output string like `wc -l` for example. [read more](#output-format)
  - **type** - The type of the value. This will help validating the parameter and will provide new functionality based on the type.
  - **file-formats** - The file format is only relevant if the type is `forrest_filename`. This field is also used for the reverse command search via `search:file`. If the command takes a directory as parameter use `directory` as filetype.
  - **enum** You can define a list of values the user has to chose one from.

## Parameter

### `type` (optional)

Forrest supports some special parameter types. All types come with special control logic. 

- `forrest_filename`: A parameter that is defined as filename qualifies for the reverse search `search:file` as soon the `file-formats` fit.


- `forrest_password`: If a parameter is defined as a password the prompt will not show password in plain test, and it will also not be stored in history. 

### `output-format` (optional)

This is an easy way to enrich the output. This is valuable for commands that only return a single output string and is *optional*. Internally we use [`sprintf`](https://www.php.net/manual/en/function.sprintf.php) for the formatting. 

#### Example
```yaml
'file:length':
    name: 'file:length'
    description: 'Return the number of lines of a given file.'
    output-format: The file has %s lines.
    prompt: 'cat ${filename} | wc -l'
```
